# Lumina.Excel

Contains generated definitions for relational Excel data used in FINAL FANTASY XIV. Git tags match game versions, tracking the global client. While these may work for regional variants, no support is provided.

## Repo Overview

* `deps` - additional dependencies for the generator
  * [`EXDSchema`](https://github.com/xivdev/EXDSchema) - the YAML schema definitions used to generate Lumina.Excel helper classes
  * `EXDSchema-experimental` - used to generated the Lumina.Excel.Experimental namespace
* `src` - generator, generated code & tooling documentation
  * `Lumina.Excel` - the project to store helper classes generated from the schema. This folder is mostly empty, as all of it's containing code is generated by the source generator.
  * `Lumina.Excel.Generator` - the source generator project that generates the helper classes. Has more functionality than is currently used. More documentation soon™️.
    - Generator Options:
      * `SchemaPath` - path to the schema definitions, relative to the project root
      * `ExperimentalSchemaPath` - path to the experimental schema definitions, relative to the project root. If omitted, the generator will not generate the experimental namespace
      * `ColumnsPath` - path to the column definitions, relative to the project root. Defaults to `SchemaPath/.github/columns.yml`
      * `GeneratedNamespace` - namespace to put all the generated classes in
      * `ReferencedNamespace` - namespace with all the referenced classes; this is primarily used for those using this generator in their own projects, so they can test their own schema changes
      * `IndentSize` - number of spaces to use for indentation in generated code. Also accepts "tab" for using tabs. Defaults to `4`
      * `UseUsings` - whether to use `using` statements in generated code. If omitted, the generator will explicitly reference all types with their full namespace. Defaults to `false`
      * `UseFileScopedNamespace` - whether to use file-scoped namespaces in generated code instead of block-scoped namespaces. Defaults to `false`
      * `UseSchemaAttribute` - enables the use of the `SchemaAttribute` to enables the ability generate classes from other schemas. Defaults to `true`
      * `Debug` - whether to generate debug output. Defaults to `false`
  * `Lumina.SpaghettiGenerator` - deprecated generator project that uses SaintCoinach schemas instead of EXDSchema.
  * `Lumina.SpaghettiUpdater` - deprecated (but not obsoleted by anything yet) project that detects and updates SaintCoinach schemas between different FFXIV versions.